Hey folks, welcome to another ML system
design video. Today we're going to be
breaking down bot detection, which is a
really interesting, very kind of like ML
street fighting as opposed to ML theory
uh style of problem. Um it has a deeply
adversarial problem which has a bunch of
interesting dynamics. We're going to
talk about some unique approaches like
anomaly detection, sequence encoders,
graph neural networks uh that can be
relevant uh for this problem. So really
excited to get into this with you. For
those of you who are new to the channel,
we are Hello Interview. Uh we have a lot
of material on this channel breaking
down system design problems, ML system
design, low-level design. If you go to
our website at hello.com,
you'll see some companion material.
Oftentimes the articles cover the same
ground that our videos do, sometimes in
more depth together with uh various
discussions about different options that
you might have. We've got a lot of
community who are present on the site
answering questions and then also posing
them. So definitely worth checking out.
I will include a link in the
description. But let's go ahead and get
into bot detection. Now for this
problem, we're going to use a delivery
framework. This is just a structure that
helps to make sure that you cover some
of the important aspects of a problem. I
find that machine learning interviews in
particular tend to color outside the
lines. Interviewers like to deep dive
into different areas. There's not nearly
as much structure as there are for say
straight infra style system design
questions. Nonetheless, you having in
the back of your head some things that
you want to cover along the way can
really give some clarity to the
interview and ensure that you are
driving it. As with all design
interviews, your interviewer is going to
expect you to take the wheel. And while
they might be asking you questions along
the way, they really want to see, can
you take an ambiguous problem and move
your way through to a solution, the
steps are are pretty simple. So, first
we're going to start with our problem
framing where we'll establish a business
objective, try to figure out what ML uh
models we're going to need. We're also
going to want to try to get some
requirements which are going to set some
constraints for the problem. Next, we'll
get into a highle design. The discussion
here is really about like what are the
main components? How does the system
take action if that's relevant? Uh how
do the models fit into the bigger
picture? Then we'll jump into data. Uh
there's kind of two sides of this
discussion. One is around the source
data like what data do we have
available? And secondly, how do we
engineer it for our model? This becomes
even more important when you're using
more classical approaches because it's
not always the case that you can just
feed in every pixel and get the output
that you're looking for with very large
transformer models. So with bot
detection, there's a lot to talk about
here. Then we'll get into some
discussion about modeling. This is
unique and I think catches people
offguard if they haven't done a lot of
modeling in their career. Uh really
important that we're talking about loss
functions, model architectures, the
trade-offs, and so forth. And so we'll
get into some of that. We wrap things up
by getting into
evaluation. This is where we talk about
any concerns that we might have as we go
to production and how we're actually
going to ascertain whether the model was
better or not. Uh the inference and
evaluation kind of puts a a capstone on
the problem framing that we had set
earlier. The business objective should
be realized in our evaluations to make
sure that the system is doing what we
expect. And then finally, we'll get into
some deep dives. Typically, as you're
working through the problem, you're
going to notice some things that are
interesting, and you may not have time
to get into them. Those are usually good
points where you can say to your
interviewer, "Hey, you know, I'd like to
get back to this if we have time."
Another place that deep dives can be
used is your interviewer is going to
have questions. And the more stuff you
put on the whiteboard, the more you
discuss about, the more likely they are
to try to dig into it. And so by the end
of the interview, there is typically a
nice backlog of things that they want
clarity on or they want additional
discussion. And the deep dive section is
where you get into that. So with that in
mind, we're going to go through these
steps one by one and we're going to try
to build out a system that does bot
detection. Our first step is problem
framing. And this is the stage where we
really get our arms around the problem,
can clarify any uncertainties that we
might have, and then get down to a
machine learning objective that we can
build a system around. Along the way, we
want to establish a business objective
for the problem. So we can really say,
here's the whole point that this system
exists. That allows us to have more
senior and staff level insights around
optimizations that we can make that
serve the business that might not be
obvious if we take the most naive
interpretation of what our interviewer
is telling us. Reading between the lines
is a big part of how you stand out in
machine learning interviews. So the
interview often starts with your
interviewer either pasting onto the
board or maybe just telling you verbally
the question and it's going to be pretty
ambiguous. So in this case, let's assume
our interviewer tells us to design a
system for detecting bots on a social
media platform with the goal of
separating legitimate user human
activity from automated or malicious bot
activity. We're going to start by asking
questions which help us to understand
the nature of the problem. So a good
question to start with is like how
common is bot activity and our
interviewer might tell us that you know
50% of all activity is bots but maybe 1%
of that remains after simple heristics
and what they're trying to say is like
we can put in some basic rate limiters
or other things on the platform that
will prevent most of the bot activity
that's happening. Great. Another
question that we might ask, and this is
one that unfortunately a lot of
candidates miss is to get the
interviewer to tell us a little bit
about the nature of bot activity. If
you've been practicing machine learning
for a while, your first step when you
have a new problem is probably to open
up a notebook and go and do exploratory
data analysis. It's kind of the same
thing. If you are getting asked a
question that you've never worked on
before, then a really good question to
ask your interviewer is what does the
data look like? And our interviewer
might tell us a couple things. Well,
like bots are
um evasive that as we build detection,
they are going to try to come up with
ways to get around it. They may also
tell us that they typically have inhuman
behaviors. So either they are going to
post at an inhuman frequency or they are
going to have times that just don't make
sense with a typical circadian rhythm.
Maybe there are users who, you know,
have been awake for 48 hours and can't
get off Reddit, but sometimes that can
mean that this is actually a bot. These
types of questions are really going to
be helpful for us to start to think
about what it is this system ought to be
doing. And we're sensing a bit of
adversarialness here. And we're also
getting the impression that we probably
should focus a bit on the behaviors or
the sequences of actions that users are
taking. Now, we might want to ask the
the interviewer about the scale of the
problem. It's a safe bet that you
probably are dealing with a problem
that's going to have massive scale. You
may even start with an assumption. So,
you say, "I have social media platform.
If we're working on something like
Facebook, we're going to have billions
of users." And so saying maybe I have 1
billion or 500 million daily active
users. Does that seem like a sensible
scale for this system to operate at? And
our interviewer might go, "Yeah, that's
perfect. Let's let's let's go with
that." Um, and that's just going to
anchor some of the architectural
decisions that we might need to make.
Um, when you're working on a problem
where you only need to run a few
requests a day, it's very different than
one that you may need to run billions of
requests. Now we're talking about
efficiency and infrastructure and those
things tend to be a little bit more
important. The next thing that we're
going to transition to is trying to
understand what actions we're going to
take and then what are the consequences
of those actions. We might ask the
interviewer, hey, you know, what do we
do about these bots when we find them?
And they might say, well, generally
speaking, we ban them. But there might
be some instances where we would hold
out a ban just to make sure that the bot
author doesn't realize that that's the
signal that we're looking for. Great.
Now, it's useful for us to understand
what happens if we ban an actual user.
All machine learning systems have false
positives and knowing what the impact
there is can help us to negotiate any
balances that we might need to make.
They might say to us, well, appeals are
available for users. But
bots can navigate these appeals, too.
So, our bot user is going to tell us a
Saab story about how the account was
really important to their grandmother or
whatever to try to get their account
reinstated. So, this is telling us that
we probably can't depend on these
appeals to be all that meaningful or
maybe all that meaningfully different
than the actions themselves. The last
thing that we probably want to ask our
interviewer is about the data that we
have available. And so, we might ask the
you the interviewer, okay, well, do we
have like a labeled data set of bot
activity that we can use? and they might
say, "Well, I have a team of
investigators
who can look at accounts
and determine if they are bots." Uh, but
it is inexact. It takes a lot of time
and it's expensive.
And what they're trying to get at here
is that our label data is going to be
relatively scarce. So, we've asked a
bunch of questions here. We spent maybe
5 minutes with our interviewer trying to
get to the bottom of this and we've
gotten some really useful nuggets and we
probably want to repeat that back to our
interviewer. This is essential for the
highest level. So the staff and above
for you to be able to determine what is
the hardest problem and make sure that
your focus is on those things. What
we're seeing is that we actually have a
pretty high prevalence activity. These
bots are are pretty common, but the ones
that we haven't gotten to yet are
actually pretty low. We're dealing with
an acute class imbalance here. The next
thing that we're going to see is that
this problem is adversarial. Adversarial
ML problems are very dynamic. They
oftenimes require different retraining
frequencies. Um the approaches are often
times not the same as a strictly
supervised problem. And so that's going
to be something that we really want to
get into. And the last thing is that the
labeled data that we have, the
supervision is going to be relatively
scarce. this team is able to provide us
examples but not many of them. And so we
need to maximally use the resource that
we have. If we summarize those things
well, then our interviewer might say,
"Yeah, this sounds like a good start.
Let's keep going." Uh or we might elect
to move on ourselves. And now what we
want to move to is framing up the
business problem for the system. Getting
a good business problem description is
really critical, especially at more
senior levels, because a lot of people
will read a description like this and
go, "Oh, I just need to build a bot
classifier. Like, let's talk about
that." But sometimes that's not actually
what we're after. So, a really stupid
business objective that we might start
with is to say, let's maximize the
number of bots detected. And the reason
that this is not a particularly good
business objective is it encourages us
to find and ban the dumbest users and
then have them come back and ban them
for the same thing. The number of bots
detected is is kind of infinite. Every
time we snap one away, another will pop
up. So this isn't really a good
objective at all. We might say, "All
right, well, if I can't maximize the
number of bots detected, like let me
just like maximize the accuracy of my
model." And this is really seductive and
attractive for engineers because they
go, I can control the accuracy of my
model. I can't control how the world
works. But honestly, the business
doesn't care about the accuracy of your
model. So, what do they care about?
Well, another framing is to minimize the
impact of bot activity on legitimate
users. So for instance, when we have
bots that are spamming on the platform,
that's a bad outcome for our users. And
so if we can eliminate the bots that are
producing that bad outcome, well, the
user experience undeniably improves.
This is a really great problem
description because it's very tractable
and it also allows us to ignore bots
that are maybe benign or not actually
all that effective. If I've got a bot on
my platform that's just browsing web
pages and periodically answering
questions, maybe that's a good bot and
maybe we don't care about that. But
minimizing the impact of bot activity on
legitimate users is not a complete
description because the easiest way to
do this is to ban all users. So we
typically need a counter metric. This is
coming back to like what happens when we
ban users incorrectly. So what we
probably want to do is say subject to
false positive constraints.
Basically we will probably make
mistakes. Maybe we want to be 95%
accurate. 95% of all of the actions that
we take should be on actual bots as
opposed to users. U that's the the cost
that we will incur. But inside of that
constraint uh we want to minimize the
impact on legitimate users. I think this
is a really good description and it also
begs us to start thinking about how do
we calibrate these false positives and
how can we ensure our system is balanced
in this optimization goal that we have
ahead of us. So with this business
objective we can then move to our ML
objective and for this problem we are
trying to build a bot classifier. I
think that's the only way for us to be
able to minimize the impact of bot
activity on legitimate users is by
knowing what is bot activity. Um, we
probably will run this bot classifier
when actions are taking place. Like we
don't necessarily need to just classify
bots offline. We only really care about
potential bots when they're taking
activities which might impact legitimate
users. This is going to be really
important. And then this bot classifier
needs to be subject to these false
positive constraints. This typically
implies some sort of calibration. If
you're not familiar with calibration,
most models will produce a score, and
that score might be between 0 and one,
but that doesn't mean a probability.
It's not always 60% bought, um, 40% not.
A calibrated probability is going to be
60% bought and 40% not. And we're going
to need that calibration in order to
ensure that we're meeting our business
objective here subject to these false
positive constraints. So if we said 95%
was our threshold and we don't need to
discuss with our interviewer whether 95
or 90 is appropriate, that's obviously
something that the business will decide.
But with that input, we can feed that
into our calibration and then spit out a
threshold at which we can take action.
Our next step is going to be to build a
high-level design. This is just trying
to explain to the interviewer how the
pieces might fit together. We have in
our head how this bot classifier is
going to work, but it might not agree
with what our interviewer has in mind.
The highle design of an ML system design
is oftenimes not building databases and
caches and things along those lines that
you might hear in a more typical system
design interview. If you're doing an
infraocused ML design interview, you
might have those things, but for the
most part, what they're trying to figure
out are where are the models and what
actions are they taking. So, let's go
ahead and throw some models onto our
screen here. First, we'll have our
classifier. This is our I guess more
specifically our bot classifier. Uh we
decided that we were going to trigger
this bot classifier when user actions
take place.
Uh remember that we care about the
impact that these bots have on
legitimate users and they can't have an
impact until they're actually taking
action. So browsing, for instance, may
not be important to us for this
particular problem. Once our bot
classifier produces a score, we're going
to feed that through a calibration
layer. Make sure this isn't wrapping.
And then that's basically going to give
us a calibrated probability of whether
this is a bot or not. And with that, we
can probably do a couple things. First
of all, if we have a really high
probability this is a bot, we're
probably just going to go ahead and like
ban that user.
If it is a lower or maybe a mid
probability, we might employ some sort
of limits. So maybe we restrict that
user. They can only post once an hour.
This is a nice soft way for us to deal
with the uncertainty that we have and it
allows us to minimize the collateral
damage that our classification might
have. Now, when we actually can
confidently classify a user as a bot, we
can extract some signal from this. Like
when we go and ban users for being a
bot, we can go and look at all of the
things that they did as potential
signals for subsequent classifications.
So a really common pattern for us is
once a user is banned, we might go and
take all their content, say their
removed content, and then dump it in a
vector database or an approximate
nearest neighbor index. And then this
can be a feature to our bot classifier.
So now we have, you know, some distance
to previously removed content that we
can shove as an input. This may or may
not be part of your highle design, but I
think if you are working through an ML
system design problem, it's useful to
think about non-parametric approaches in
addition to your traditionally
parametric uh models. So like your
logistic regressions, your neural
networks, your gradient boosted decision
trees might be augmented by a k nearest
neighbor search and a vector database.
This not only helps you to scale, but it
helps you to be responsive. And if we
have a bot who's constantly posting the
same meme over and over again, well, us
capturing this and feeding it into our
bot classifier is going to be able to
immediately start to notice that user
when they're doing the same thing, but
maybe in a slightly different way. So,
this really helps us to kind of have
memory in our system. The last thing
that I'm going to add to this highle
design is a way for us to uncover new
bot activity. We talked about this being
an adversarial problem. And what that
means is that these user actions are
going to constantly mutate themselves to
try to pass our bot classifier. If a bot
triggers a ban, they're probably not
going to do that same sequence of
actions again. They're going to learn.
There is an outer loop here where
someone is taking this system and trying
to say what actions can I perform that
don't trip the ban. And so what we may
want to do is try to figure out how do
we get new labels or how can we find
those bots uh that we aren't classifying
today. Um one way to deal with this is
to have a labeling loop. So maybe we
have a label action over here. uh we can
take some of our lower scoring things
and sample them into our labels and
those can feed back into our bot
classifier. We may also want some sort
of unsupervised bot detection
that's not going to use labeled data and
then is going to provide us samples that
we can then label and feed back into our
classifier. So our total system is
mostly reliant on this core bot
classifier and you know maybe we have
several models. We might have some sort
of ensemble here. Um it's going to make
calibrated decision to ban limit or
label. Uh when we ban we are going to
take the items that that user created so
that we can incorporate that into our
decisions going forward. And we're also
going to see the labels that we create
from some sort of unsupervised approach
um so we can improve our bot detection
continually. This seems like a great
highle design to move with. It asks and
begs a ton of questions and those are
the things that we're going to get into
uh as we continue to move through this
design. For our next section, what we
want to do is get into the data. And
specifically, we want to get into the
data that's going to be used for our bot
classifier and our unsupervised bot
detection. Now, most candidates will
instinctively go to our supervised data,
our ground truth labels. This isn't a
bad idea. You should obviously use the
ground truth labels, but for this
problem, they're insufficient. We've
already mentioned that they're expensive
to generate by these investigators and
we don't have very many of them. So, we
need to show our interviewer that we've
got some creativity and we can start to
think outside the box. The next class of
labels that we would start to think
about are weekly supervised labels.
These would be things like user
generated signals.
So, things like account reports or
content level reports.
or maybe even like appeal outcomes.
These signals are not going to perfectly
correlate with whether an account is a
bot or not, but they'll probably come
close. If a user reports an account as a
bot, it could be just their friend and
they're trying to get them banned for
funsies, but more likely they're
reporting it because they've seen it
behave like a bot and they think that
that is actually um a bot account. Same
thing with content level reports.
Remember that our objective is to
minimize the impact of our bots on
legitimate users. And the primary way
that they do that is by behaving badly,
creating bad content. So looking at the
reports at the content level will tell
us something about whether that account
might be a bot or not. Now there are a
lot of signals that are going to be more
unsupervised in nature. So like
networkbased uh labels are pretty
interesting like IP address clusters or
maybe like behavioral
similarity clusters. And the reason this
is useful is because often times that
network is going to tell us a bit about
who's behind it in the IP address
clusters. If I had an account banned
with the same IP address um just a few
moments ago, it's likely that that new
account is actually the same person or
the same uh entity behind it. It could
of course be a user who just got unlucky
and their cell phone just got a new IP
address and it happened to have been the
the previous bot or it could be that
they're behind a network proxy. It's not
perfect. Uh but these types of clusters
are going to be really useful for us.
And then finally we've got unsupervised
data which is just sequence data
from real users on the platform. We had
mentioned that simple horistics had
driven down bot prevalence to 1%. That
means 99% of the activity on the website
is legitimate users and only 1% of it is
bots. And what that means is that we can
use this sequence data to try to find
what are the exceptions. What are the
anomalous behaviors that might be a new
bot emerging? Now, so far we've been
talking pretty high level about the data
that we might be able to use. And most
interviewers are expecting us to go a
tick deeper to talk about features that
would be incorporated into our model.
So, we've got a bunch of ground truth
labels. What are the X's that are
associated with these Y's that might be
informative for the problem? Now, the
problem with features, especially for
something like bot detection, is you can
literally come up with thousands of
different features and all of them can
be incremental. It's easy to burn an
inordinate amount of time in your
interview on this section. So I
recommend a establishing a highle
framework and then b just getting into a
few indicative examples so your
interviewer can get an idea of what you
had in mind. So I might go through this
by saying this. I'm probably going to
have a bunch of features around activity
patterns and some examples of that might
be like the posting cadence. So like how
frequently
um are they posting?
What would be the variance of the post
times?
I might also put um some coverage or
like circadian rhythm. I might say what
percent of time during the day uh was
covered. Um can I detect a place where
this person is actually sleeping? I
might add some features that tell me
about burstiness, like what is the max
frequency of actions that they took.
These are all just summaries of actions,
but they're going to be really helpful
and they may be some of my most
informative features. I'm going to have
some models that are going to learn from
the data. You know, what aspects of
sequences are most impactful. Uh, but
for a lot of models, especially smaller,
more classical ML models, having more
deliberately engineered features can be
really useful. The next thing that I
might get into are content level
signals. So, I've got some labels that
are happening at the content level. And
I'd love to have those uh ladder up to
the individual accounts. For content, I
might be looking for like the frequency
of typos.
I might look at how often the user
backspaces.
Like, are they copy and pasting all of
their text onto the site? That would be
a little bit unusual. Um, are they
making mistakes as they type it out?
These are going to be things that
probably tell me whether there's a bot.
I'd also expect some biases in terms of
like language quality that bots are
going to have more refined messages.
They probably aren't going to be
speaking in slang as much. I know modern
bots probably are doing this more
frequently, but at least in establishing
the base defenses, I need to make sure
that those bots which are just blasting
out heavily PR messages aren't getting
through my system. Next, I might talk
about the network of the user. So things
like how quickly has their follower
graph
grown. So like some sort of rate. Uh
here
I might also look at follower to
following ratios. My expectation is that
bots are going to generate synthetic
networks and they're going to interact
with one another. And I'd like some
really easy summary features that are
going to tell me whether this is
happening or not. Lastly, I'd probably
want some real time behavioral features.
Well, the account is probably not going
to shift in its nature much over time.
If I find that content flags, no say
number of content flags
or number of
rate limits applied. These are going to
change over time and might tip an
account from that not category into that
bot category relatively quickly. My goal
with these features again is not to be
exhaustive, but what I'm trying to prove
to my interviewer is that I've got a
good idea about different things that I
might want to look at and I can be
creative at coming up with examples in
each of these categories. Now that I've
got these features and this data, I'm
going to quickly step back to make some
observations. One, I've got a bunch of
weak supervision that I'd like to be
able to incorporate into my model. We
have our networkbased clusters. is we
also have these network-based features.
We'd ideally like our model to be able
to learn from the graph, whether that be
an IP address graph, a behavior graph,
or maybe even like a follower graph. We
also have a bunch of more low-level
features of the activities and the uh
actions that the user is doing
themselves. These are things that we're
going to want to figure out how our
model uh can learn from. And those are
going to be complemented with these
real-time features that are, you know,
very simple tallies. They're like
counters that we might uh accumulate for
a user, but are going to be super
informative because when they start to
trip these things, then obviously we
probably have a bot on our hands. So,
let's go ahead and move into the
modeling section where we can talk a
little bit about how all these things
come together. Now, the first step in in
coming up with a good model is to
establish a benchmark. This might sound
like a waste of time in an interview,
but it's usually helpful to let your
interviewer know that that's where you
would start. Many candidates like to
jump for the most sophisticated model
they think they can use, but the reality
is often times benchmarks are
frustratingly effective. It also is
really useful for you to have in a
production system so you can know
whether you're backsliding. Like if your
mega sophisticated model starts to
underperform the benchmark, you know
you're doing something wrong. So we'll
start the the modeling section by saying
let's come up with a benchmark. I would
probably deploy a simple
logistic regression with some
handgineered features. I spoke about a
lot of the ones that I might come up
with off the top of my head. Um and this
would be a really cheap simple model for
us to have in production so that we
could evaluate any approaches that come
afterward. As for the core model,
there's a few different approaches, and
I've got some preferences here. So, the
first would be what a lot of production
systems end up looking like after a few
years, which is you basically have your
ML team training a bunch of different
models. Maybe a logistic regression is
used for content. Maybe we also have a
logistic regression for behavioral
features. some engineer created a
gradient boosted decision tree model and
then we would want some sort of
ensemble. So all of these models are
going to contribute maybe a vote that
we're then going to aggregate. You can
be intelligent about the waiting here
based on historical performance. You can
go and train some parameters of this
vote ensemble. But the reason that
people typically end up with uh models
like this is because of organic
evolution. This isn't what you would
oftenimes propose to start with in an
interview setting because while it has
some advantages like each of these
models is going to be reasonably
uncorrelated assuming they're coming in
with completely different data, it's
pretty hard to optimize and there's a
lot of surface area to a system like
this. So it wouldn't be something that
that you would start with. The other
approach is to come up with the mega
model where we basically say we're going
to train some massive maybe really
contentheavy model and that mega model
is going to tell us whether it is a bot
or a not. The truth is in a lot of cases
with respect to ML there is some
advantages to end toend learning that
you know more parameters more data
there's typically better results. uh but
it's a little bit unclear what's
actually happening in this mega model
and often times features like content
tend to overfitit as opposed to being
really informative for uh questions of
whether there's bot or not. If you
imagine if I am a bot author, the
easiest thing for me to change is the
content that my bot is posting. A much
harder thing to change is like the IP
ranges that I'm using or how frequently
the actions are coming out of my system
or if there's any recognizable patterns
in that. So this mega model is probably
not the approach that you would go with.
Instead, what we want to do is fuse
together multiple modalities. We want to
be able to incorporate um some of the
sequences and behaviors that the account
is exhibiting. We probably want to
incorporate some of the graph and the
social structure uh that the account is
part of. And we probably also want some
of these dumb features that we've been
talking about that are just so
consistently important over time and
that are always going to catch the
stupidest adversaries that we have on
the platform. So what might that model
look like? One of the ways for us to do
this is to use a late fusion
architecture where we basically learn
different aspects of the problem
somewhat independently before combining
them at a later layer in the model uh to
produce our prediction or our bot score.
Let's talk a little bit about what that
might look like. So first of all, we
have a few inputs that we want to take
advantage of. One might be the network
features. This could be like our IP
cluster or it could be the follower or
social graph. So we'll maybe call this
network or graph. Next we have our
sequence features. So these would be
things like our activities
or the actions that a user is doing. And
then finally, we have a bunch of dense
or counterfeatures
that we want to incorporate into our
model.
For our graph features, one way for us
to encode those is to use a graph neural
network. An example of an algorithm for
learning a representation over a graph
is graph sage. There are a lot of graph
neural networks uh that are out there.
It's a very active area of machine
learning research, but many of them
require that I have the full graph at
training time and then I'm going to
learn embeddings on nodes in that graph
as they relate to each other in
training. These can be really helpful.
It's a great way to kind of digest a
graph into something that's useful and
meaningful for other tasks. But in our
problem, we actually have a bunch of new
data. we have a cold start problem that
there are going to be new accounts or
new pieces of content that we might want
to incorporate into our model but we
didn't have available at training time
that we kicked off a week ago. So graph
sage is inductive and what it means is
it will basically take a sample of the
graph various edges and nodes that are
nearby the target and then using that
sample and the features from each of
those nodes or edges uh we will then
produce an embedding for the node that
we have and the nice thing is it allows
us to summarize really useful inputs
like our IP clusters uh we can engineer
those as edges in the graph that we
train using this model for our activity
sequence. This is a a traditional
sequence model. This is a sequence
branch. Uh you might think, oh, I've got
a sequence that's probably a good fit
for a transformer and I think that
instinct is a good one. But the scale of
this particular problem makes this
somewhat challenging. Remember that we
are running our model whenever an action
happens uh for an account. And so if we
have a really heavy transformer model,
we are going to need a massive fleet of
GPUs uh just to do our bot detection. A
probably better idea here is to use a
more basic RNN. A very popular approach
is to use what's called a uh gated uh
recurrent unit or GRU. It's basically
like an LSTM except it retains less
state between each of the connections.
And so what our sequence model is going
to ingest is something like the user
visited profile A, they followed profile
B, and then they posted XYZ,
and then produce a summary of this
that's hopefully relevant for our bot
detection task. And we're going to make
it relevant by training in in just a
moment. But the model works by basically
taking each of these inputs and then
coming up with some latent
representation that is then carried
through to the next step in the
sequence. Finally, our counters and
dense features we can represent with
some sort of dense MLP. Now, all of
these branches are going to basically
produce embeddings that we then need to
process. And so a really natural thing
for us to do is to apply some sort of
attention layer beneath this. Uh then we
can add an MLP so we can learn any
residual interactions that are
necessary. And then finally we can pass
this to a sigmoid
to produce some sort of bot or not uh
score at the end. And what this model
will allow us to do is to take into
account all of the interesting
information for this bot detection task
to produce this score. Now the big
problem is training this is going to be
a bit of a mess because if you recall
the labels that we have are on the order
of a thousand. So what we don't have are
tons of examples where we can learn a
really rich graph representation or
learn a really deep sequence model or
maybe even to tune the parameters of
this MLP.
So what are we going to do here? The
most sensible thing to do is to do some
pre-training. And so for our graph
branch, one thing that we can do is we
can utilize self-supervised learning. We
can have this graph model try to predict
whether two nodes are connected by an
edge and during training we will censor
that edge. will make it not available in
the inputs and then we will see if the
model is able to predict the presence of
that edge using the data that it has and
that will provide us a really rich
training set for us to learn these graph
embeddings that we can then fine-tune
once we have our fully labeled data for
the bot or not task. The same thing can
be done for our sequence branch for our
RNN. What we can learn is to predict the
next element of the sequence based on
all the previous actions that we had
seen. This will be trained with a loss
function of of of cross entropy. We may
weight our loss function based on the
importance of that particular account.
So the bots that most negatively impact
legitimate users, have thousands of
actions or actions in very public
spaces, those are going to be the ones
that we care most about their scores.
Whereas the bots that are mostly inert,
we may not care as much about them. The
next thing that we will probably do is
incorporate some sort of multitask
objective down here. So currently we
have our bot or not score. But another
thing for us to ask is whether or not
this account is reported and what that
allows us to do is train with
substantially more data. So before our
final fine-tuning where we are basically
freezing some of these earlier layers
and then learning and back propagating
through the later layers for the bot or
not score. We can do the same thing with
the account is reported task. And what
this will do is allow our model to learn
something that's close to the bot or not
score before using a far more limited
set of data for that final task. Now
that we've got our model described,
we're going to back up and start to talk
about inference and evaluation. And this
is a place for us to reflect a bit on
our high-level design and try to think
about whether any adjustments need to be
made. The bot classifier itself, while
relatively efficient, we're using an RNN
as opposed to, you know, a huge
transformer model, is still going to be
pretty expensive to run. And there's a
number of ways that we might make it
more efficient at inference time. The
most common is for us to use uh some
sort of pruning or quantization. We'll
employ some sort of caching. So for
instance, those graph embeddings that we
create for an individual account don't
change much unless the input graph is
changing. And so we can cache those. So
that way we can maximally reuse the the
computations. But that is going to make
our model maybe two times more
efficient. it's probably not going to
give us a 10x that we might need. And
what that means is that we're probably
going to need a lot of GPUs in order to
run this model efficiently in
production. One thing that we can do in
order to make this more efficient is to
try to take a a learning from a model
distillation or a teacher student
architecture where we might learn a uh a
filter model and run that before we get
into our bot classifier. So the idea
behind this filter model is it would be
substantially lower parameters. We might
just have a simple logistic regression
here. And the filter model is going to
try to predict not ground truth, but the
output of the bot classifier. So it's
going to try to predict whether or not
the bot classifier would flag or ban or
apply limits to this particular account.
If the filter model has a high score,
then we pass that account to the bot
classifier to give us a better estimate
of whether it's bot or not. If the
filter model tells us it's unlikely the
bot classifier is going to ban or apply
limits, uh then we would probably drop
that account. We wouldn't carry it on uh
for additional computation. Now, this
two-stage architecture adds some
complexity particularly around this
labeling. Like the worst case scenario
is we aren't getting labels of things
that our filter model is discarding.
It's a really easy way for our system to
fail over time if our filter model is
discarding certain accounts. So
malicious users find ways to be
discarded by the filter model and then
we never get labels about those
mistakes. So a common model is to take
random samples. So sample the uh higher
rated or higher scored things first and
then pass those into our labeling. uh
that both gives us a way for us to
assess the accuracy of the filter model.
We can basically find out how many
things we're losing out, what is the
recall of it, but it also allows us to
get that labeled data, retrain the the
bot classifier, and then we can retrain
the filter model again to approximate
the bot classifier. Okay. And with our
inference established, we would then
move to talk about evaluation.
Evaluation can be broken down into
online and offline evaluation. And a lot
of people don't think about this
deliberately, but the online evaluation
should reflect our business objective as
closely as possible. Like what we want
to know is if we make a new release of a
model, is it better at achieving our
business objective than the previous
model? Our control. For this, we can do
AB testing. The AB testing is is not
nearly as trivial as you might expect.
You can of course randomly allocate a
session to an old model or a new model.
But there's all sorts of ways that these
can leak. Uh for instance, the graph uh
inputs to our model might have users who
are on the old model and users who are
on the new model. And so it's possible
for there to be contamination between
the two groups. It's not going to be a
perfectly controlled experiment but in a
lot of cases we'll be good enough by
randomly allocating between sessions and
we'll have to control for some of these
effects uh downstream.
For our AB test we have to decide what
to measure. we would probably measure
things like user reports uh like spam
prevalence uh and things along those
lines so that we could compare is the
model preventing those bad experiences
that we had basically built the system
around. Now, of course, we want to
measure our counter metric. Our system
because it's calibrated is theoretically
going to guarantee that the aggregate
precision is at 90%. But we want to make
sure that that's actually happening. So,
we'll probably have to label for false
positives. Now, it could make sense for
us to ask, is it doing a better job at
finding these bot accounts? And for that
we can use important sampling. We can
basically use these scores of the model
to try to sample the most important
regions of account space. So things that
score near zero, we don't necessarily
need that many samples in order to know
that there's not going to be many out
there. On the other hand, things that
are scoring around 50%, we probably need
more of those to feel confident in our
estimate of the overall prevalence of
bots because we'd expect more of the
density to be there. So, important
sampling is a an approach where we
basically use the classifier to try to
inform which samples we need to label
because remember our samples are
expensive. Those investigators don't
produce many labels. And if we want to
be able to put air bars on something
like whether it's 1% of all of our
overall users, we need on the order of
several hundred examples. So it's really
important that we get the right samples
to be able to do that. And important
sampling is one way to pull that off. In
terms of offline metrics, a typical way
to measure this is going to be using the
area under the precision recall curve.
Uh the reason that we want to use this
over say ROC AU is just because it is
less sensitive to the class imbalance
that is very uh acute for this problem.
But the important thing for our offline
metrics is we choose offline metrics
that correspond to the results that
we're seeing online. What we basically
want is something that we can run
regularly. Um, but that's going to tell
us a bit about how the online experiment
will go. The offline experiments are
less about choosing the right metric.
And I think PR AU is a good one. You can
measure F1 score and precision recall at
fixed thresholds if you'd like. More
about assembling a good data set that's
reflective of what you expect online.
One way to do this is to have two
different periods. So when you train
your model offline, uh you would train
it using maybe a twoe hold out. So it's
it is trained using data that is at
least 2 weeks old and then you measure
the performance on the following two
weeks because what we want to see is
that the model does a good job with new
behaviors that it hasn't seen before.
That problem of drift and generalization
is a really deep one and one that some
interviewers will want you to get into
more detail about. But just knowing that
choosing the right evaluation set is
really important for making sure that
these offline results are going to carry
through uh to what we're going to see
online. After covering our evaluation,
we're basically done with the core of
the interview. If we have additional
time, that's going to be where we get
into deep dives. And those deep dives
can either be directed by you or by the
interviewer. If they're directed by you,
these would be things that you earmark
to say, "I'd like to talk about this
later if we have time. Now is a chance
for you to actually get into it." If
it's your interviewer, they're going to
ask you more detailed questions until
they can exhaust the time. They might
ask you to explain certain decisions
that you have. They might ask you what
happens if certain assumptions or
constraints that we added to the design
uh were changed. Now, one of the things
that we had earmarked in our design was
this unsupervised bot detection. And the
goal was to go and find those bots that
we weren't really looking at yet. The
problem with our supervised model is
it's going to get really good at finding
those things that it has seen before.
And the failure mode would be the bots
change their behavior entirely. We stop
seeing them and the model keeps bet
getting better and better at detecting
behaviors that are no longer relevant
that basically the bot stopped using. So
for anomaly detection or some of these
unsupervised approaches, we're usually
working with a set of data points that
have no label. In this diagram, I have
an X and a Y. So I have two features and
then I have a bunch of examples that
correspond to the X and the Y values for
those. And the anomaly detection problem
is basically to go and find those
examples that are a bit weird. Like
visually you might think of this as this
guy over here is abnormal. Uh he is
split off from the group. And if we were
trying to go detect anomalous behavior,
to go and label, to go and see if that's
a bot activity that we haven't seen
before, visually finding that guy would
be a reasonable approach. So, how do we
do it? Well, there's a couple approaches
that we could take. Um, one is called
isolation forests, and this borrows from
the idea behind random forests. So the
way that that all treebased models work
is we're going to draw these partitions
of our feature space. And this is
basically a tree. It's an if statement.
So if the x value here was five, then if
x is less than five, you're in this
node. And these are all your neighbors.
And if x is greater than five, then
you're in this node with all of these
neighbors. And most treebased models are
going to continue adding these splits
until all of their data is subdivided.
Isolation forests do this instead of in
greedy way where random forests are
going to try to find splits that really
are are separating most meaningfully the
data. So they're usually trying to find
a split in the middle, something like
genie impurity. With isolation forest,
we're just going to randomly assign
splits. So maybe our first split is on
this five. And then we're going to
proceed iteratively. So on the right
hand side, we're going to go create
another split. This will be our second
split. Maybe it's here. And then we need
a third split because we still have two
elements uh that aren't divided. So
we'll create one here. Each split, each
partition, each node in the tree is
going to be randomly chosen by feature.
And then the split uh value is going to
be randomly chosen between the smallest
and largest values. And what this is
going to result in is a chopping up of
the feature space. So each of the
examples will exist on its own and it
will require a number of splits to find
it. So like this example I only had to
split twice before it was separated.
Whereas both of these examples I had to
split three times before they were
separated.
The intuition here is that anomalous
elements are going to require less
splits to separate from the group and
that if you are actually part of the the
center of the distribution or you're
more normal, um we're going to need more
splits in order to find you.
And so when we want to decide whether an
input or an example is an anomaly,
what we're going to do is build a bunch
of these trees. We're basically going to
come up with some splits, some set of
splits. We're going to measure the depth
in that tree that the item occupies.
And then we're going to aggregate those
depths across all of those trees to come
up with a score. And so there of course
is a bunch of proofs that sit behind
this. But the intuition, which is
probably the only thing that matters for
an interview setting, is that isolation
forests are going to give you uh numbers
or like anomaly scores that are higher
for things that are easier to separate
from the cluster than those that aren't.
And they're going to do this in a way
that's actually really fast and
amendable to CPUbased computation. Uh
like these splits are just if
statements. So they run on a CPU very
fast. And then finding how deep in a
tree an element is is just basically
traversing n if statements. The more
anomalous the lower that n is. So it can
be very quick and efficient. So
isolation forest would be one example of
a way that we can try to find the bots
that we aren't detecting with our
supervised methods. will basically
assemble a bunch of features that we can
use for our isolation for us. Assign
anomaly criteria and then rank the items
and send them off for labeling.
Now, another approach that we can use is
an autoenccoder.
And an autoenccoder works by coming up
with a representation
that can be used to reproduce itself. So
we have some input. Let's just say this
is an example A. It's going to be
represented by its features. And then we
are going to have a series of layers of
a neural network typically that are
going to be getting smaller and smaller
until they arrive at some final
representation. This is the encoding. So
what we're trying to do is take a large
example. this might have a thousand
dimensions and then produce an encoding
or like the essence of that example that
might have five or 100 dimensions. This
is like a compression that we're
learning. And the point of the
compression and the way that we evaluate
how good it is is what we want to do is
reproduce example A on the other side.
We will measure the difference uh
between the input and the output.
uh that will be basically our loss
function and then we'll continue to
optimize. So the weights of our model
are going to be learned in such a way
that we minimize the error on the
examples that we have. What our
autoenccoder is going to do is it's
going to prefer to learn things about
encoding examples that are more common.
And so the idea behind using an
autoenccoder for anomaly detection is I
can basically use how effectively my
autoenccoder can reproduce this example
as an indication as to whether it's
anomalous or not. That if it's harder to
learn an encoding that I can use to
reconstruct the example, then maybe this
is a weird or anomalous example to begin
with.
Now this isn't foolproof like it's
possible for these examples to be
completely represented by this encoding
and maybe the number of parameters in my
model allows me to reconstruct any data
that I have and that's pathology of
autoenccoders is they can learn uh to
reproduce all of the data including the
anomalies and then they're not useful
for anomaly detection. Um, but
autoenccoders are a bit richer than
isolation forests and that they can
learn very nonlinear relationships
between inputs. With this isolation
forest, I'm only learning these
orthogonal hyperplanes. I'm not
learning, for instance, a line that
looks like this because that's not how
treebased models typically are working.
With an autoenccoder, I can have all
sorts of nonlinearities in my model that
can learn that. But I have the downside
that the model may just learn to
represent anything. So both of these
approaches are, I would say, equally
good for the application that we have
here. But probably the better way for us
to actually surface anomalous examples
is to use both of them and then ensemble
them together. And we can just sum or
average the anomaly scores and then use
those to uh rank accounts for us to go
and label to come up with new seed data
for our model. The whole idea with this
anomaly detection concept here is just
that we are surfacing examples that we
otherwise might miss and that might be
representative of bot behavior that we
want to find on the platform. Okay
folks, we covered a lot of ground in
this bot detection breakdown. Uh we
really centered on this idea of
adversarial problems and how data
distribution shifts make this more
challenging. We kind of need to put
ourselves in the uh position of an
attacker, a bot author in order to know
what we need our system to be able to
do. uh we talked about sequence encoders
and how we can use something like gated
recurrent units in order to summarize
accounts activities uh so that we can
determine whether they're a bot or not.
We also talked about graph sage and
graph neural networks so we can
summarize some of the social or maybe
like hardware IP context of a user or an
account um for bot detection. Uh we went
into a deep dive on anomaly detection
talking about autoenccoders and
isolation forest as two kind of
complimentary ways of determining
whether something is an anomaly and then
ensembling them together to form a
labeling pipeline that allows us to find
uh bot accounts that maybe our
supervised approaches weren't finding
but that were important for us to both
learn and to measure. Overall, we
covered the high level of ML design
interviews. We covered the requirements.
We talked about data and features. We
went through modeling, evaluation, and
inference. I hope that this was
informative for you. Please leave a
comment if I've got anything wrong or if
you've got feedback for us. And then
check out the article on the the website
if you'd like further detail and other
deep dives that we weren't able to cover
like different approaches for
calibration. It's been great spending
time with you and I'll talk to you next
time.